Imagine a scenario where you have multiple development
certification and production instances. Installing the agent
manually is not going to be a feasible option.
We can automate installing the agent using AWS
Systems Manager run command feature.
Let's log in back to AWS console and see a demo.
I currently have three running EC2 instances.
All these EC2 instances are Amazon Linux 2 instance types.
These instances come preinstalled with SSM agent.
The instances are set up in such a way that two of the instances
have development as the value of environment tag, and one of the
instance has staging as its value.
Though the SSM agents are preinstalled,
you need to add an IAM role for EC2 instances that allow run command operation.
All these instances have an IAM role named EC2SSMRole attached to it.
Let me click on this role and you can see this role has a
policy that allows full access to SSM.
You may need to double‑check with your systems engineer if you can use full
access policy. Now that all of our EC2 instances are prepared well, our
next step is to install the Amazon Inspector agent. I just switched to AWS
Systems Manager run command console.
There is a built‑in command with the name Amazon Inspector
Manage AWS agent. Let me search for it,
let me select it. I'm going to accept the default document version that
is latest and greatest. The only command parameter is installed. Under
Targets, I'm going to select the instances based on tags. Let me enter
Environment as key and Dev as a value.
I have the option to write the output of this command to a
S3 bucket and send an SMS notification to send the
execution status of this command.
Let me click Run, and you can see under Targets and output, it has
picked up two instances that were part of the development environment
and the status is currently in progress.
Let me refresh it and it looks like the commands are
successfully run against both these instances.
Let me expand the Output section, and you can see that it fetched the agent
package URL, validated it, issued a HTTP call to download it, and got a 200
success status, and finally, installed agent. Now let's go back to Amazon
Inspector and create a new assessment run.
Click on Assessment target, choose Create.
Give your assessment target a name. Under Use tags,
select the development instances only.
Since the agents are already installed, I'm going to
uncheck the install agent option.
Even if you let the inspector install the agent, all your instances need
to have a proper IAM role setup that you saw before.
Running it from run command gives you more flexibility in terms
of tracking a notification. Click Save. Now let's go ahead and
create an assessment template.
Click Create, give your assessment template a name. Under target name,
select the new target that you just created. Under Rules package, I'm
going to choose only Network Reachability.
Let me run this for 1 hour, and under Tags, select only development instances.
I'm going to uncheck recurring assessment run.
Click on Create and run.
You can see our assessment has started and it is going to run
for 1 hour before it displays its findings.
For those assessments that are currently in the running state,
you have the option to check the status. Click on Show status and it displays
the amount of time that the inspector has been analyzing,
Click on Show agents and you can see the two instances against
which the assessment is currently being run.
It has been more than an hour and let me login back to Amazon Inspector.
There are four recent findings in the recently completed run. Let me
click on the recent run, click on the findings.
There are two medium and two information findings.
Let me click on the information finding and it looks like the
ports are reachable from the internet through ENI.
Let us go back and choose what the medium findings are.
It looks like port 22 is open and accessible from the internet.
Along with the findings, you can also see the recommendation by AWS to address this vulnerability.